MY LIFE is a story of the self-realization of the unconscious.
Everything in the unconscious seeks outward manifestation, and thepersonality too desires to evolve out of its unconscious conditionsand to experience itself as a whole. I cannot employ the language of
science to trace this process of growth in myself, for I cannot
experience myself as a scientific problem.
What we are to our inward vision, and what man appears to be subspecie aeternitatis, can only be expressed by way of myth. Myth ismore individual and expresses life more precisely than doesscience. Science works with concepts of averages which are far
too general to do justice to the subjective variety of an individual life.
Thus it is that I have now undertaken, in my eighty-third year, to tell
my personal myth. I can only make direct statements, only "tell
stories." Whether or not the stories are "true" is not the problem.
The only question is whether what I tell is my fable, my truth.
An autobiography is so difficult to write because we possess nostandards, no objective foundation, from which to judge ourselves.
There are really no proper bases for comparison. I know that inmany things I am not like others, but I do not know what I really amlike. Man cannot compare himself with any other creature; he is not
a monkey, not a cow, not a tree. I am a man. But what is it to be
that? Like every other being, I am a splinter of the infinite deity, but I
cannot contrast myself with any animal, any plant or any stone. Onlya mythical being has a range greater than man's. How then can aman form any definite opinions about himself?
We are a psychic process which we do not control, or only partly
direct. Consequently, we cannot have any final judgment about
ourselves or our lives. If we had, we would know everything--but at
most that is only a pretense. At bottom we never know how it has all
come about. The story of a life begins somewhere, at someparticular point we happen to remember; and even then it wasalready highly complex. We do not know how life is going to turnout. Therefore the story has no beginning, and the end can only bevaguely hinted at.
The life of man is a dubious experiment. It is a tremendousphenomenon only in numerical terms. Individually, it is so fleeting,
so insufficient, that it is literally a miracle that anything can exist anddevelop at all. I was impressed by that fact long ago, as a youngmedical student, and it seemed to me miraculous that I should not
have been prematurely annihilated.
Life has always seemed to me like a plant that lives on its rhizome.
Its true life is invisible, hidden in the rhizome. The part that appearsabove ground lasts only a single summer. Then it withers away--anephemeral apparition. When we think of the unending growth anddecay of life and civilizations, we cannot escape the impression of
absolute nullity. Yet I have never lost a sense of something that lives
and endures underneath the eternal flux. What we see is theblossom, which passes. The rhizome remains.
In the end the only events in my life worth telling are those when theimperishable world irrupted into this transitory one. That is why I
speak chiefly of inner experiences, amongst which I include mydreams and visions. These form the prima materia of my scientificwork. They were the fiery magma out of which the stone that had tobe worked was crystallized.
All other memories of travels, people and my surroundings havepaled beside these interior happenings. Many people have
participated in the story of our times and written about it; if thereader wants an account of that, let him turn to them or get
somebody to tell it to him. Recollection of the outward events of mylife has largely faded or disappeared. But my encounters with the"other" reality, my bouts with the unconscious, are indeliblyengraved upon my memory. In that realm there has always beenwealth in abundance, and everything else has lost importance bycomparison.
